h1. mck_login

p. A public-side plugin for "Textpattern CMS":http://textpattern.com. Handles site-wide logins, sessions, password recovery and self-registering. Made by "Jukka Svahn":http://twitter.com/gocom and "Casalegno Marco":http://www.kreatore.it/.

p. This repo branches from "Casalegno Marco's":http://www.kreatore.it/ Textpattern plugin, "mck_login":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=37380. While this mck_login "fork" doesn't really share any code with the original code base, it is based on it, initially started as a simple patch.

p. The main idea [of mine] was to fix security issues the original release of mck_login had. Work started by removing the all of the code which was duplicated from Textpattern's core, and then fixing all the simple, yet critical, security issues.

p. After patching everything and taking advantage of core features, I concentrated to adding number of new features. The content and layout which once was hard-coded to the plugin, became changeable with tags and localization strings. No longer a form was a single tag, but set of tag. After that came security enchantments; brute force prevention, form tokens to prevent CSRF attacks, nonces and time-limited, eventually expiring forms. And finally, tools for extending the plugins in form of callbacks events and hooks.

h2. List of tags

p. As the work progressed, mck_login's tag weaponry doubled.

* @<txp:mck_login />@
* @<txp:mck_login_if>@
* @<txp:mck_login_form />@
* @<txp:mck_register_form />@
* @<txp:mck_password_form />@
* @<txp:mck_reset_form />@
* @<txp:mck_login_bouncer />@
* @<txp:mck_login_token />@
* @<txp:mck_login_errors />@

p. Please see "./examples/":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/tree/master/examples directory for usage instructions and examples. The "plugin's source (mck_login.php) includes":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/blob/master/mck_login.php documentation (PHPdoc) and outlines all tag attributes and has embedded minimal inline-examples too.

h2. Extending and callbacks

p. The plugin comes with range of callback events, hooking points which 3rd party plugins/developers can use to integrate with mck_login inner-workings. This allows extending mck_login's feature set. For example adding anti-spam plugins, or extra form validation to the mix is no-brainer.

* mck_login.reset_confirm
* mck_login.reset_confirmed
* mck_login.logout
* mck_login.login
* mck_login.invalid_login
* mck_login.logged_in
* mck_login.reset_form
* mck_login.reset
* mck_login.reset_sent
* mck_login.register_form
* mck_login.register
* mck_login.registered
* mck_login.login_form
* mck_login.password_form
* mck_login.save_password
* mck_login.password_saved

p. Hooking (registering callback) to the events happens with Textpattern's very own @register_callback()@ function, in the exact same fashion as one would normally do when writing a plugin for core Textpattern.

p. See "/extending/abc_trap":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/blob/master/extending/abc_trap.php for usage example. Abc_trap.php is an example plugin, that adds a hidden spam trap field to the registration form.

h2. Installing mck_login

p. Installing the plugin is easy, especially if you are already usign "plugin cache directory":http://textpattern.net/wiki/index.php?title=Advanced_Preferences#Plugin_cache_directory_path. If you haven't, set it up (create a directory, set the path in your site Preferences). 

# Grab a copy of "mck_login.php":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/blob/master/mck_login.php.
# Copy and save it to your plugin cache directory (as @mck_login_v0.1.php@).
# The plugin is installed and activated.

p. You may also want to grab a localization file, a textpack.

# "Grab a localization file from textpacks directory":https://github.com/gocom/mck_login/tree/master/textpacks. There are few languages available.
# Copy and paste the files contents to your site's Language paneö (TXP/Admin/Preferences > Language). At the bottom of the langauge panel you should see a _Install Textpack_ field.